feat(node-core): Add lightweight mode docs (#16396)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/javascript/common/install/lightweight.mdx

---
title: Lightweight Mode
sidebar_order: 15
description: "Learn about using @sentry/node-core in lightweight mode without OpenTelemetry."
supported:
  - javascript.node
  - javascript.connect
  - javascript.express
  - javascript.fastify
  - javascript.hapi
  - javascript.hono
  - javascript.koa
---

<Alert level="warning">
  Lightweight mode is experimental and may have breaking changes in minor or
  patch releases.
</Alert>

<Alert>
  Are you unsure if you should use this installation method? Review our
  [installation methods](../).
</Alert>

If you don't need automatic spans/transactions, you can use `@sentry/node-core/light` which doesn't require OpenTelemetry dependencies. This mode is ideal when:

> - You only need error tracking, logs, or metrics without tracing data (no spans)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You only need error tracking, logs, or metrics without tracing data (no automatic span creation)
```

```

```bash {tabTitle:yarn}
yarn add @sentry/node-core
```

```bash {tabTitle:pnpm}
pnpm add @sentry/node-core
```

## Step 2: Configure

Import from `@sentry/node-core/light` and call `Sentry.init()` as early as possible in your application lifecycle:

```javascript {tabTitle:ESM}
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/node-core/light";

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
});

// Now create your HTTP server or framework app
```

```javascript {tabTitle:CJS}
const Sentry = require("@sentry/node-core/light");

Sentry.init({
  dsn: "___PUBLIC_DSN___",
});

// Now create your HTTP server or framework app
```

## Step 3: Verify

To verify that Sentry is working, capture a test error:

```javascript
Sentry.captureException(new Error("Sentry lightweight mode test"));
```

After running your application, you should see this error appear in your [Sentry dashboard](https://sentry.io).

## Request Isolation

Request isolation ensures that errors, breadcrumbs, and context are correctly scoped to individual requests.

### Node.js 22.12.0+

Request isolation works automatically. No additional setup is needed — just make sure `Sentry.init()` is called before you create your HTTP server.

> ### Node.js &lt; 22

Author: Nope 😅

> ### Node.js &lt; 22

Author: Removed.

You need to manually wrap your request handler with `Sentry.withIsolationScope()`:

```javascript
import * as Sentry from "@sentry/node-core/light";
import http from "http";

const server = http.createServer((req, res) => {
  Sentry.withIsolationScope(() => {
    // Your request handling code
    Sentry.setUser({ id: "user-id" });
    res.end("OK");
  });
});
```

<Alert level="warning">
  When using manual isolation on Node.js &lt; 22, distributed tracing will not
  work correctly.
</Alert>

## When to Use Lightweight Mode vs `@sentry/node`

|                            | `@sentry/node`     | `@sentry/node-core/light`      |
| -------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| **Error tracking**         | Yes                | Yes                            |
| **Logs and metrics**       | Yes                | Yes                            |
| **Automatic spans**        | Yes                | No                             |

> | **OpenTelemetry required** | Yes                | No                             |

Reviewer: It might be a bit unclear what "required" means here. As a user, I might come up with questioning "I need to add OpenTelemetry when I am using `@sentry/node`?".
```suggestion
| **OpenTelemetry auto-included** | Yes                | No                             |
```

Author: Right, I like that suggestion a lot.
